Proofreading MO Guide (#11605)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/Additional_Optimizations.md

# Embedding Preprocessing Computation {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_Additional_Optimization_Use_Cases}

Input data for inference can be different from the training dataset and requires additional preprocessing before inference.
To accelerate the whole pipeline including preprocessing and inference, Model Optimizer provides special parameters such as *`--mean_values`*,
*`--scale_values`*, *`--reverse_input_channels`*, and *`--layout`*. Based on these parameters, Model Optimizer generates IR with additionally

> inserted sub-graph, that performs the defined preprocessing. This preprocessing block can perform mean-scale normalization of input data,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
inserted sub-graphs that can perform the defined preprocessing. This preprocessing block can perform mean-scale normalization of input data,
```

> reverting data along channel dimension, and changing the data layout. For more details about these parameters, refer to the paragraphs below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
reverting data along channel dimension, and changing the data layout. 
```

> The same functionality is also available in runtime, refer to the [Overview of Preprocessing API](../../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion

See the following sections for details on the parameters, or  the [Overview of Preprocessing API](../../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md) for the same functionality in OpenVINO Runtime. 
```

Author: > 

```suggestion
See the following sections for details on the parameters, or the [Overview of Preprocessing API](../../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md) for the same functionality in OpenVINO Runtime.
```

for more information.

## Specifying Layout

> You may need to set input layouts, as it is required by some preprocessing, for example, setting a batch, applying mean or scales, and reversing input channels (BGR<->RGB).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Layout defines the meaning of dimensions in shape and can be specified for both inputs and outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Layout defines the meaning of dimensions in shape and can be specified for both inputs and outputs. Some preprocessing requires to set input layouts, for example, setting a batch, applying mean or scales, and reversing input channels (BGR<->RGB).

```

For the layout syntax, check the [Layout API overview](../../OV_Runtime_UG/layout_overview.md). 

> To specify the layout, you can use *`--layout`* option followed by the layout value. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To specify the layout, you can use the *`--layout`* option followed by the layout value. 
```

> For example, Tensorflow *`nasnet_large`* model that was exported to ONNX format has input with *`NHWC`* layout:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to specify the `NHWC` layout for a Tensorflow *`nasnet_large`* model that was exported to ONNX format, use the following command:
```

```
mo --input_model tf_nasnet_large.onnx --layout nhwc
```

> Additionally, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified, you need to provide the name of each input or output to which you apply the layout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified, you need to provide the name of each input or output to apply the layout.
```

> For example, an ONNX *`Yolo v3 Tiny`* model has first input *`input_1`* in *`NCHW`* layout and second input *`image_shape`* with two dimensions batch and size of the image, which can be expressed as the *`N?`* layout:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following command specifies the layout for an ONNX `Yolo v3 Tiny` model with its first input `input_1` in `NCHW` layout and second input `image_shape` having two dimensions: batch and size of the image expressed as the `N?` layout:
```

```
mo --input_model yolov3-tiny.onnx --layout input_1(nchw),image_shape(n?)
```

> ## Changing Layout of a Model Inputs and Outputs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Changing a Model Layout
```

Changing the model layout may be necessary if it differs from the one presented by input data. 
Use either *`--layout`* or *`--source_layout`* with *`--target_layout`* to change the layout.

> For example, for the same *`nasnet_large`* that was mentioned previously, data in *`NCHW`* layout may be provided:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, for the same `nasnet_large` model mentioned previously, you can use the following command to provide data in the `NCHW` layout:
```

for example, `[0, 1]` or `[-1, 1]`. Sometimes, the mean values (mean images) are subtracted from the input data values as part of the preprocessing.

There are two cases of how the input data preprocessing is implemented.
 * The input preprocessing operations are a part of a model. 
    In this case, the application does not perform a separate preprocessing step: everything is embedded into the model itself. Model Optimizer will generate the IR with required preprocessing operations, and no `mean` and `scale` parameters are required.
 * The input preprocessing operations are not a part of a model and the preprocessing is performed within the application which feeds the model with input data.

   In this case, information about mean/scale values should be provided to the Model Optimizer to embed it to the generated IR.
Model Optimizer provides command-line parameters to specify the values: `--mean_values`, `--scale_values`, `--scale`.
Using these parameters, Model Optimizer embeds the corresponding preprocessing block for mean-value normalization of the input data
and optimizes this block so that the preprocessing takes negligible time for inference.

> For example, the following command runs the Model Optimizer for the PaddlePaddle UNet model and applies mean-scale normalization to the input data:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, the following command runs Model Optimizer for the PaddlePaddle UNet model and applies mean-scale normalization to the input data:
```

Again, if a model has more than one input or needs both input and output layouts specified, you need to provide the name of each input or output to which you apply the layout.

> For example, to provide data in the *`NHWC`* layout for the *`Yolo v3 Tiny`* model mentioned earlier, use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to provide data in the `NHWC` layout for the `Yolo v3 Tiny` model mentioned earlier, use the following commands:
```

```
mo --input_model yolov3-tiny.onnx --source_layout "input_1(nchw),image_shape(n?)" --target_layout "input_1(nhwc)"
mo --input_model yolov3-tiny.onnx --layout "input_1(nchw->nhwc),image_shape(n?)"
```

## Specifying Mean and Scale Values
Neural network models are usually trained with the normalized input data. This means that the input data values are converted to be in a specific range,
for example, *`[0, 1]`* or *`[-1, 1]`*. Sometimes, the mean values (mean images) are subtracted from the input data values as part of the preprocessing.

> There are two cases of how the input data preprocessing is implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

There are two cases of how the input data preprocessing is implemented.
```

>  * The input preprocessing operations are a part of a model. In this case, the application does not preprocess the input data as a separate step: everything is embedded into the model itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The input preprocessing operations are a part of a model. 
    In this case, the application does not perform a separate preprocessing step: everything is embedded into the model itself. Model Optimizer will generate the IR with required preprocessing operations, and no `mean` and `scale` parameters are required.
```

 * The input preprocessing operations are not a part of a model and the preprocessing is performed within the application which feeds the model with input data.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: trying to change the formatting here.

In the first case, the Model Optimizer generates the IR with required preprocessing operations and no *`mean`* and *`scale`* parameters are required.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In the second case, information about mean/scale values should be provided to the Model Optimizer to embed it to the generated IR.
Model Optimizer provides command-line parameters to specify the values: *`--mean_values`*, *`--scale_values`*, *`--scale`*.
Using these parameters, Model Optimizer embeds the corresponding preprocessing block for mean-value normalization of the input data

> and optimizes this block so that the preprocessing takes a little time for inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and optimizes this block so that the preprocessing takes negligible time for inference.
```

> For example, run the Model Optimizer for the PaddlePaddle UNet model and apply mean-scale normalization to the input data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the following command runs the Model Optimizer for the PaddlePaddle UNet model and applies mean-scale normalization to the input data:
```

```sh
mo --input_model unet.pdmodel --mean_values [123,117,104] --scale 255
```

## Reversing Input Channels <a name="when_to_reverse_input_channels"></a>
Sometimes input images for your application can be of the RGB (BGR) format and the model is trained on images of the BGR (RGB) format,

> the opposite color channel order. In this case, it is important to preprocess the input images by reverting the color channels before inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which is in the opposite order of color channels. In this case, it is important to preprocess the input images by reverting the color channels before inference.
```

To embed this preprocessing step into IR, Model Optimizer provides the *`--reverse_input_channels`* command-line parameter to shuffle the color channels.

> The *`--reverse_input_channels`* parameter applies to an input of the model in two cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *`--reverse_input_channels`* parameter can be used to preprocess the model input in the following cases:
```

 * Only one dimension in the input shape has a size equal to 3.
 * One dimension has an undefined size and is marked as *`C`* channel using *`layout`* parameters.

Using the *`--reverse_input_channels`* parameter, Model Optimizer embeds the corresponding preprocessing block for reverting

> the input data along channel dimension and optimizes this block so that the preprocessing takes a little time for inference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the input data along channel dimension and optimizes this block so that the preprocessing takes only negligible time for inference.
```

For example, launch the Model Optimizer for the TensorFlow AlexNet model and embed *`reverse_input_channel`* preprocessing block into IR.

```sh
mo --input_model alexnet.pb --reverse_input_channels
```

> **NOTE**: If both mean and scale values are specified, the mean is subtracted first and then the scale is applied regardless of the order of options

> in the command line. Input values are *divided* by the scale value(s). If also *`--reverse_input_channels`* option is used, the *`reverse_input_channels`*

Reviewer: Here the formatting of Note breaks in the output. You may want to check it in your editor.

> in the command line. Input values are *divided* by the scale value(s). If also *`--reverse_input_channels`* option is used, the *`reverse_input_channels`*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the command-line. Input values are *divided* by the scale value(s). If the `--reverse_input_channels` option is also used, `reverse_input_channels`
```

will be applied first, then *`mean`* and after that *`scale`*. The data flow in the model looks as follows:
*`Parameter -> ReverseInputChannels -> Mean apply-> Scale apply -> the original body of the model`*.

> ## See Also

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Additional Resources
```
